# 2.1.1 Zooming and Navigating in the timeline

Your timeline can be rather simple with just a couple of strips or very complex with hundreds of strips with varying lengths from a few seconds to minutes. Easy Navigation in this timeline is essential to deliver a smooth-flowing through end product. Navigation is done trough shortcut keys.

#### Zooming

* `Home`: Frame All. Zooms the timeline to show all strips.
* `NumpadPeriod`: Frame Selected. Zooms in the display to fit only the selected strips.
* `Shift-B`: Zoom. Click and drag to draw a rectangle and zoom to this rectangle.

#### Navigating

* `Numpad 0`: Go to Current Frame. Scrolls the timeline so the current frame is in the center.
* `PageDown`: Jump to Previous Strip. Current frame will jump to the beginning of the strip.
* `PageUp`: Jump to Next Strip. Current frame will jump to the end of the strip.
* `Alt-PageDown`: Jump to Previous Strip \(Center\). Jump to the previous center of the strip.
* `Alt-PageUp`: Jump to Next Strip \(Center\). Jump to the next center of the strip.
* `Spacebar`: Play Animation. Start or stop playback of animation. This will start playback in all editors.
* `MMB`: Pan: Panning the timeline view.
* `Wheel`: Zoom:
* `Shift-Wheel`: Vertical Scroll. Or drag on the left scrollbar.
* `Ctrl-Wheel`: Horizontal Scroll. Or drag on the lower scrollbar.
* `Ctrl-MMB`: Scale View.Drag up/down \(vertical scale\) or left/right \(horizontal scale\).
* Scale View Vertically: drag on the circles on the vertical scrollbar.
* Scale View Horizontally: drag on the circles on the horizontal scrollbar.

